>> Steve Kinney: So
then there are more advanced use cases.
So why don't we spend another few minutes
we're gonna dig into the other ones,
because like, at that point,
we will stop with the like
training ground of Zod schemas, and
we'll actually put it into practice.
But I think like getting
our sea legs under us and
then taking a run at it
in the real world app.
Application, we will be better
prepared in our journey together.
So like I said, before you've got
my notes, you've got the docs,
we'll do it together, and
I'll show you some of my feels on what I
thought of all of the advanced
ones were the most useful.
You might need other ones in there and
have to like in your day-to-day life.
But these were from, again,
the very scientific way that I reflected
on who's hurt me at 2 in the morning
by changing arrays into null back
in engineers, it's never the tools.
These are the ones that I find
myself reaching for the most.
So take a look and
then we will try it out together.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
we covered some of the basics together.
There are, again, my small selection based
on feels of what some of
the more esoteric but
useful enough that I felt
compelled to include them.
Schemas going through every single
one of them would be boring, right?
And so
kinda take a look at a few of these.
One of the problems that we
have is JavaScript is hard.
Shocker, and so if we wanted to have
a category that could have subcategories,
we're gonna come up with
a little bit of a problem, right?
So I could try to do something, and
that's because I kinda hit
the answer in here as well.
No, don't give me the answer yet.
I'm trying to make a point
where we have an object,
where the name is a string,
and then like I said before,
we can reference other schemas, right?
And that is normally a AOK
way to handle this, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Category schema.
>> Steve Kinney: The problem
is not a Zod problem.
The problem is JavaScript angry with me,
right?
It's like you can't use
it before it was defined,
because it's evaluating at this point
before it assigns it there, right?
So it's like, you can't use
this cuz it's not defined yet,
cuz you're currently in
the process of defining it.
So we need to do is figure out
a way to tell Zod to wait a second.
Cuz you wait a second,
then it will be defined.
And so, again, the hint is
hiding literally in plain sight.
What we can do here is say z.lazy,
which takes a function, right?
And just in the nature of the way that
JavaScript works this will be defined,
and then it will call the function, right?
And so at that point, category schema
is now, in this case, defined, right?
And so also,
if you want an array of something,
which I should have probably
put in the basics, but
didn't think about until just now,
but we did it anyway, it's great.
So now you can kinda have this thing
where you can have a self-referential,
recursive version of it as well.
You just have to, yeah, if you don't have
the value just yet, wait a second, and
then JavaScript will figure it all out.
Let's take off that to do.
And it's gonna blow up on me, because
I've got all those other describes,
so I'm just gonna there's only five in
this challenge, so that'll be great.
Multi cursor is for the win.
Great, I'm only running
that previous test file,
so that Zod exercise is advanced.
All right, so that one passes,
and we're good to go and again.
Just to make my point,
cuz I think it's worth a while.
>> Steve Kinney: For the ones who
are lazy, we can't do it for you, so
then you do need to give
a little bit of hint as well.
And I'm trying to remember how
to do it off the top of my head.
>> Steve Kinney: This point,
you might need to know the type first.
I will look it up a second.
I've done it enough times before, but
I'm now forgetting exactly how
to do it off the top of my head.
So we've got that one, and okay, so
the other one that's kinda interesting
is something where we might wanna
preprocess the data a little bit first.
And so the challenge here, if I scroll
up and look a little bit closer,
is I want it to either be this object
that I think makes a schema or
like a JSON string that is
also could be that object.
Do you know what I mean?
So either the object or the JSON
representation of that object, right?
And I need to do some amount of
pre-processing to try to like,
if it's a string, try to turn it
into an object and then validate it.
So now what's really cool is you can,
kinda like,
save yourself the JSON parses, right?
You can just put in the schema.
Now it'll either be the object or
the string that represents the object.
Either is fine, you will get the object
at the end as you processed it,
it will have the right type.
You will save yourself
a whole lot of other sadness.
So let's take a look at
how that might work.
So we've got the z dot pre-process, and
that starts out with a function
that's gonna take something right.
In this case, we've got an input unknown,
cuz I don't know what it is just yet,
and I am kinda insisting right now that it
is, I did this looking at my own notes,
that starts and close,
like that is an object.
I'm not sure that that's
incredibly important.
Cuz theoretically,
this will throw if it wasn't valid JSON,
and maybe I was just being
a little over the top.
We'll experiment that together.
I've already gone off the script
enough times and suffered, so
we're gonna stick to the script,
and then I'm gonna go off script.
It's gonna be great.
So we've got the ability
to pre process it, and
then I wanna make sure that it is
that thing that I think it is, right?
So that I wanna say that it's
like in this case, what is it?
What am I expecting it to be?
Let me check my own test.
Cool, should be an object
with the type JSON,
the data value 42, great.
>> Steve Kinney: So we'll say z.object and
the type, I believe,
yeah, type is literal, JSON, and
the date is a value of a number and
I got close my curly braces or
regular, awesome.
And so basically, all I'm doing,
I think I can get rid of this part,
we'll find out together, is if it is
a string, parse it as JSON first, right,
and then go check the object itself.
So now it'll kinda hopefully work for
both,
we'll find out together
if I made a boo-boo.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, didn't skip,
so, yeah, we should be good.
>> Speaker 2: Your top describe has to do.
>> Steve Kinney: Where,
I thought I got rid of that one?
We're gonna find out.
Did I add it back?
Why did I do that?
This is why you live code
with all your friends.
So, which one is failing?
>> Steve Kinney: All right, yeah, an
actual one that should be found because I
didn't get to it yet, so
you'll love to see that.
I can have a prefix,
that test seems like a little bit much.
Let's find out if I could have,
this whole time,
not checked anything about the string.
So, I gotta at least checked that
it is a string in this case.
But I don't think I need to check for the
curly braces cuz it will pass this phase,
but I think that the scheme of
validation afterwards will fail,
or I did it for a reason.
Yeah, so you can just parse it first.
So if it's a string, pass it,
move it on through, and
then we're gonna check the object
that comes out the other end.
The test that failed is apparently
a previous version of me wanting to
make a union where something could
also start with the string prefix,
which is probably why I made
it more complicated as well.
So I'm trying to think if there are other
fun ones that we need to look at.
Yeah, so
this is sometimes you need to do something
asynchronous to figure out if it's valid,
right?
The example I came up with is if it
was a form, you wanna be able to see
if it's a valid username by checking
to see that username is taken.
In this case,
I will have just a silly little function
that returns a promise cuz
it's an async function
that will tell me whether or
not it's taken, right?
But this could be hitting the API,
something along those lines.
When would you use this one?
Most likely like form validation or maybe
to see that like is that ID taken already?
Something where you need to confirm
what's the source of truth,
whether or not it's valid beforehand or
anything asynchronous.
Which theoretically, I guess you
could also go fetch that data and
then check it all yourself.
But then again, now you have the schema.
It will go check the thing.
You will be happy.
Life will be great.
So in this case,
what we can do is we can go and
of just use refine to kinda get
a sense of whether or not it works.
So what we'll do is first we do need
to make sure it's a string, right?
That seems totally fair.
And so we'll say z.string,
and then we'll refine
with a asynchronous function to make
sure that that username is not taken.
Again, this would call an API.
I did not set this up,
an entire server for this as well.
Let's make sure that passes, great.
And so now you can do asynchronous things.
You can validate.
Most useful thing there is the parts
where you might do form validation or
someone's lines, but
I could come up, I could
definitely riff on different places I
would use in the server side as well.
All the places that I have used it
are very, very bespoke and weird,
not worth talking about.
But it comes up.
You can look at some of the errors
I kinda in the name of brevity.
The one that I also wanna get to is
the one I talked to in the beginning,
which is again,
the answers are hiding in plain sight.
But the ability to use this coerce first,
which is to say, if this case,
now, if it's anything that can coerce
into a number, it'll be valid.
So, the number 100 will be, or
just as valid as the string 100, right?
Because query params are always strings,
even in the browser or in Express.
And lot of times,
you'd be then casting them.
And you're kinda a lot of times hoping for
the best when you put a plus
sign in front of the string and
just hope it turns into a number, or,
a parse int, and hope for the best,
hope it's not NaN, which will technically
be a type of number, so on and so forth.
So like, in this case,
it'll allow you to say again, 01,
will coerce into true and false.
If you're looking for a Boolean,
like a string that matches the number,
it does all this stuff where it's like,
sure, close enough.
But, as long as it can become the thing,
and the nice part is you will get the,
the number out.
In this case, you'll get the Boolean.
It will fix everything.
And this can work the other way.
If you say z.coerce.string, and
you pass in the number two,
it'll pass, and
you'll get the string too, right?
So a nice little
convenience method as well.
Cool, as you can see,
it doesn't throw on a string 150.
It does in this case throw on
50 cuz that's less than 100.
So you kinda got a whole bunch of stuff
for free in one very simple line of code
and again it will throw
if you give it a b and c.
So numbers that are number-ish, and
you can validate it based on his
number-ishness, that's a technical term,
we'll pass.